WANDERER
Wanderer is a game about exploring a strange new universe and solving the
mystery of the strange destructive forces that lurk within.


Things that make games good: Story, advancement, 


PLOT
You are... some scientist.  We probably never get a real name or explination
of the past, but there is a hint of Victorian elegance and such about it
--maybe not in fact, but in style.  Names tend to be in Latin, much
old-science observation and such.
You came here as part of an exploration team, but through events that may
never get fully revealed, all but yourself perished.  Working desperately, you
managed to activate and control some of the mysterious artifacts scattered
about, invented tools to let you percieve and make sense of the alien universe
around you.
You cannot leave, though.  That is still beyond your power.

The plot is generally revealed through your journal.  Like Ironseed, each time
something interesting happens, you get a new Journal entry.  Unlike Ironseed,
these ought to actually be expository and helpful, and have some relation to
what's actually happening in the game.

Exploration is a big theme here.  There should be mysteries for you to solve,
secrets to uncover, ancient stories to unravel.  Many should have nothing to
do with the main plot, perhaps.

The main sources of information are probably going to be 1) Your own original
theories and discoveries, 2) artifacts and such left behind by other people
who have inhabited whatever this space is, and 3) Information gleaned from the
husks of the Devourers.

There are other dangers besides the Devourers, both environmental and
situational.  


DEVOURERS
There are more beings in the universe besides you.  There are the Devourers,
which as the name suggests, consume everything.  Details are hazy at this
point, but... their source is the lonliness and insane hatred of another
explorer who came here before you, driven mad by the isolation.  To defeat the
Devourers, you must save her from her own fear and rage.

You will find traces of her, and of other expeditions.

They can't eat EVERYthing, at least not yet.  But they certainly trash 
outposts, local life forms, and other signs of order and beauty.  I don't
think they can touch big features though, stellae and ice-fields and so on.
Maybe not yet, at least.

How do they operate?  Are they centered in hives, or are they nomadic?  Do
they cluster around certain features, such as lacunae?
-Is there a big realm of space they've blotted out?
-Is there an unbroken line of them advancing across the universe?
-Are they wandering aimlessly making random raids on anything in their path?

Upon consideration, you start at the center of the universe, and they are
based at the periphery.  You move out and they move in.  There are probably
expeditions and outposts in a more or less irregular sphere.



UNIVERSE
*Fact
The universe is a dark and mysterious, somewhat surrealistic place, with
little solid resemblance to ours.  The laws of physics are whatever I want
them to be.

There are six elements, each associated with a particular type of feature;
three pairs of opposites.  Lux opposes obscuris, aether opposes glacialis, and
materia opposes vacuum.
Lux comes from stellae
Obscuris comes from lacunae
Aether comes from gas clouds
Glacialis comes from ice fields
Materia comes from rocks and dust
Vacuum comes from the spaces far away from everything?

The three "light" elements are lux, aether and materia.  They are pretty easy
to see and manipulate.
The dark elements are obscuris, glacialis, and vacuum.  They're a lot rarer
and generally invisible.
Lux is the most fundamental and basic element, while vacuum is the most
dangerous and exotic.

Stellae tend to push objects outward.  Lacunae pull in.
Gas clouds slow you down and make you use up fuel faster.  Ice fields slowly
erode and damage you.

The overall structure of the universe is this:
In the center, there is a cluster of lux, aether and materia.  This is the
Core, the safest part of the universe, moderately rich in resources.  It's
also relatively small, and a lot of the stuff there is fairly thoroughly
ravaged.

Around it are three rings interlocked with each other.  One is rich in lux,
one is rich in materia, one is rich in aether.  This is the Frontier, where
the individual resources are more plentiful and concentrated, but also all
spread out away from each other.  Where the rings cross there are high
concentrations of both elements, and more interesting things tend to happen
there.

Around that is another three rings, one rich in obscuris, one rich in
glacialis, and one rich in vacuum.  This area is sparse, dire, and dangerous,
full of Devourers, and the site of some of the rarest and most exotic elements
in the universe.

These characterizations are not absolute.  There will be small pockets of void
in the innermost cluster, and small pockets of lux in the outermost.  But,
they'll be small and uncommon and generally hard to find.

It should all be procedurally generated, as well.  That should be fairly
simple, at least to do badly.


*Speculation
There is life, sometimes, or something resembling it.
Space dragons!
Space whales too.  They provide the background music

Dates.  Keep track of 'em.

Trees, fountains, clouds, ice-crystals, helices, worlds, asteroids...  Big,
strange, incomprehensible natural structures.  Lots of 6-fold and 3-fold
symmetry.  Huge Kadesh and Junkyard-ish mega-structures?



MINING, BUILDING AND TECHNOLOGY
*Mining 
There are six fundamental elements: Lux, Obscuris, Materia, Vacuum, Aether,
Glacialis.  Light, Dark, Matter, Void, Ether, Frost
Each comes from a different place.  There are three pairs of opposites; pretty
obvious.

So each point in space has an 'element richness', depending on proximity of
stellar features.  Stellae, rocks, clouds, etc.  The exception is Vacuum,
which is 'denser' the further you are from anything.

Mining is accomplished via outpost structures.  They operate continually,
making a cache of elements.  They also consume elements to operate, and don't
work too fast.  Prolonged operation may temporarily deplete local
concentration.

Your ship and such require a certain amount of elements for life-support and
fuel.  Probably Lux for energy, Materia for maintainance (maybe), and Aether 
for fuel?  Obscuris, Vacuum and Glacialis are probably harder to get.

*Building
Objects are summoned, not built.

Ironseed...
Runeprints.  You probably have to find them, but may be able to research
them to come up with more efficient versions, or synthisize new things.

Each outpost is built around a core.  The number of cores you have is the
limiting factor of how many outposts you can build.  

Mining systems
Refineries (not necessary, but improves efficiency)
Fabbers
Power systems
Research labs (Run by runeminds, to a large extent, but perhaps not totally)
Weapons
Defenses (shields, stealth, etc)
Sensors
Communication systems?
Drone bays?
Independant craft?  Miners, guards, etc.

*Other tech
Runeminds.  Basically, computers.  They're an artifact from YOUR civilization,
not part of the shattered wrecks you find and adapt.

There are no space stations, they're outposts.  You're not exactly in space,
after all.

Skyhooks?
Transportation is a bitch.  Teleporters of some kind, perhaps?  Streams,
funnelling material from one point to another... might be doable.  Or perhaps
automated shuttles, a la Alien Legacy.

Stations are things you need to protect from the Devourers.

You can probably only build things from certain, fixed seeds.  This keeps it
from being Alien Legacy, with infinate power and infinate complexity and
infinate micro.

You need certain artifacts to build new outposts?  Can only build off the
remains of old ones?  You need to be able to choose your points, but...  You
shouldn't be able to blanket the universe in the things, even with the
Devourers.

Maybe the Devourers are powerful enough, and will concentrate on things that
resist them, to the extent that any station is temporary?  That sounds...
irritating.  Though hiding from them should be a priority.

The "things" you create are at least partially metaphors for more alien
manipulations that you cannot percieve directly.
Is there a certain element of psionics and willpower involved in this?
Hmmm...


YOUR SHIP
You can name it.  Default name: Stardrifter.
I don't think you ever have reason to leave it.

You only have one drive...  But it can probably accelerate exponentially, or
at least faster-than-linear, making it effective for both in-system and moving
between relevant points

...neat idea, but a tad iffy, given my decision to do non-newtonian mechanics
(even iffier with it, too).  

Relevant systems:
Engines
Weapons
Sensors
Fuel tanks?
Cargo bays?
Drone bays? Combat drones, stealth drones, scanner drones, mining drones...
Communication systems? keep in contact with outposts, have running updates of
their stats, be warned of important events, etc.
Other... stealth systems, mini-fabbers, active jammers...


Oooh.  Here's an idea, that can partially obviate the need for new ships:
You eventually get the capability to morph your ship to new, specialized
forms.  They would be very good at one thing, and not very good at everything
else.
Roles: Scout, miner/builder/hauler, DPS ship, tank ship, drone ship...
How you do this is undecided.  Either it happens only a finite number of
times, or you can do it whenever you want at a suitably equipped base but it's
expensive, or you can do it whenever you want at a suitably equipped base and
it's cheap/free.

This does bring up the idea of reconfiguring your ship on the fly for
different roles, while NOT at a base.  It's an interesting idea that I shall
have to contemplate.


No max velocity, just a combination of acceleration and drag.  Drag depends on
your ship layout.

Each element produces different sorts of effects, beyond simple
power/speed/range tradeoffs (though those also exist).  Lux weapons are beams
that travel and hit instantly, for instance, while Aether weapons slow down
the things they hit, and Materia weapons splinter out into AOE.  Obscuris
weapons pull themselves towards the target (or at least A target), Glacialis
weapons pierce shields, and Void weapons drain energy.
These are just examples of things that MIGHT happen.  Similar sorts of effects
exist in other componants.

Ooh, submunitions

You have a generator, with a power rating.  Componants do not have a fixed
power consumption, but rather an efficiency rating.  The more power you put
into them, the better they get; weapons, engines, sensors, etc.  
The progression may well be nonlinear at both ends though, with effectiveness
very much reduced with insufficient energy, and not much increased by
overpowering.  It'll probably depend on the componant.


COMBAT
Ammo matters, but perhaps it simply enhances damage instead of doing all of
it.  Thus you could fight with no ammo, just do badly.


PEOPLE
There are no other people.  This is the point.
However, it occurs to me that one of the *fun* things about games like this is
trading and meeting people.  So I think I shall have a few automated systems
from those who came before, semi-autonomous and intelligent, or even just
recordings of ghosts (sorta like that one episode of Lexx).


HUD
Okay, this is becoming increasingly necessary as navigation becomes trickier.
1) I need a way to see how far away shit is
2) I need to LOD things down to billboards or other un-flickery points (onto
the skybox?)
3) Need some sort of way to tell orientation
